
General

At any given time, a particular group is current - it is the one being
displayed topmost onscreen.  Most groups are stuntsheets
or refptsheets.  In the latter case, the associated stuntsheet is also
sometimes called current.

Arrow keys work just like moving the mouse, but the cursor stays on
the grid in this case.  There are some exceptions to this.  Use of the arrow
keys together with the keyboard commands makes almost anything possible
without the use of the mouse.

The screen has four sections.  Viewing region, icons, help/advice/warning
bar, and text menu.

The text menu can be accessed by either positioning the cursor on it and
clicking.  TAB will cycle through menu options.

Clicking on a point with more than one man will cause a menu with a list of
labels of men at that point to appear.  Choose a man with the mouse.
This applies to individualmove, individualblock,
smartmove, and clevermove.  ** Are there any other times when this feature
is needed?

ESC always aborts.  If a selected set existed, it still exists (except
when ESC is erasing an existing selection).  Not repeatable but is undoable.

Undo.  U or icon or menu option.  
Undoes the last undoable action (not all actions are undoable).

Repeat.  T or icon or menu option.  Repeats last repeatable action (not all
actions are repeatable).
Aborted actions are never repeated in this or any other "repeat last" context.

Killchanges.  E,K or menu option (not an icon).  Undoes all changes made
since the current stuntsheet became the current stuntsheet.  Only affects
the position of the men on the current stuntsheet.  Does not undo changes
made to continuity or to stuntsheet order or whatever.

Background.  E,B or menu option.  Choose stuntsheets for which background
will be changed.  Select as many as desired.  Default is all stuntsheets.
Select college football, high school football, professional football,
Harmon Gym, or Zellerbach Hall.

Choosing items from a list (stuntsheets, groups, symbol names, etc.) always
works the same way.  Leftclick to select one item.  Leftdrag
or rightdrag to select a consecutive block of items.  Leftclicking or
dragging when some items are already selected will cause those original
selected items to become deselected.  Rightclick on a selected item to
deselect it; rightclick on an unselected item to select it (no effect on
the selection status of any other items).  CTRL and SHIFT in conjunction
with dragging cause XOR and OR.  ** This is supposed to be analogous to
point-blocking.

Whenever a command makes no sense (repeatlastaction before any actions
have been executed, etc.), nothing happens but a warning on the warning
bar.  If possible, a brief explanation is given.

Blocking

If a selected set currently exists, it is highlighted.  If a selected set
exists and the user implements another block command (EXCEPT for
individualblock), the original selected set will vanish and the new block
command will define a brand new one.  If the user holds SHIFT while
blocking, then the old selected set and the new one are ORed; if the user
holds CTRL while blocking, then the old selected set and the new one are
XORed (EXCEPT for individualblock).

None are repeatable, and only individualblock is undoable.  Press ESC to
erase currently existing selected set.

Rectangularblock.  Press and hold the left button when the cursor is at p1. 
Move the cursor to p2.  All men within the NSEW rectangle with diagonally
opposite corners p1 and p2 are highlighted.  Release the left button to
select the highlighted men.  Boundary inclusive.

Lassoblock.  Press and hold the left button when the cursor is at p1. 
trace out a curve with the mouse to p2 - the curve appears onscreen as it is
defined.  All points within the region bounded by the curve and the segment
p1p2 are highlighted.  Release the right button to select the highlighted men.
Boundary inclusive.

Individualblock.  Place the cursor on an unselected man and click with the
right button.  The man is added to the selected set.  Place the cursor on
a selected man and click with the right button.  The man is subtracted
from the selected set.  If there is more than one man at the same
location, all are simultaneously added or subtracted.

Menublock.  Choose the menu item for blocking, and the program requests
the name of a group, which can be entered either by typing or by choosing
from a list.  Default only selects the local restriction of the group, but
global (or multiple SS) groups can be selected at will.  ** Do the other
forms of blocking need to be on the menu? 

Repeatlastblock.  Icon and menu item.  This is defined in terms of the men
who were selected, NOT by their locations when they were selected. 
Execution is immediate.

** Should there be a way to change the default to XOR or OR?

Individualmove

Place the cursor on a man.  click with the left button.  The man
disappears, and the shape of the cursor changes.  ** A target like in the
old version?  Move the cursor and click on another point.  The man reappears.

Geniusmove Family

Each is an icon and menu option.  Press RETURN before entering any new data
to recall the data from the most
recent action of the current type (i.e., translation data ONLY gets
applied to translation, not to other types).  If the user decides to recall
data after he has already input some new data, he should press ESC, then call
the action again and press RETURN immediately.

The advice bar displays the quantity and
type of information still required to uniquely determine the action.

If you try to input nonsensical data (e.g., two source points identical
with different destination points), the data will not be accepted and a
warning will appear.  If you try to input data when none more is required,
it will not be accepted and a warning will appear.

Click with the left to define a new source at the current cursor location p1. 
The shape of cursor changes.  Move the cursor to another point p2
(possibly p1 = p2).  A line appears from p1 to p2, and a dot appears at p2.
Click left again to set destination.

If the new data entry is identical (same source and destination) as an already
existing data entry, then it is completely ignored, and a warning message.

In some contexts, direction of motion is restricted.  After clicking on the
source, the freedom of motion of the cursor is restricted.
The displayed location of the cursor is the nearest "projection" of the mouse-
defined location onto an allowed direction.  ** I fear that I'm not explaining
this well.

To edit existing data, position the cursor over either a destination or a
source point.  Click and hold the left button.  Move the cursor and the
underlying point moves, too (the line changes simulateously).  Release the
left button, and the point is set at the current location of the cursor.
If more than one endpoint lies at the same location, then one of them will be
chosen arbitrarily when editing is invoked.  Note that if you try to edit a
fixed point, you might end up moving the source or the destination.  ** What is
the convention for choosing arbitrarily here?

To remove a data entry, click with the right on either endpoint.  Does NOT
request Y/N confirmation since the data entry is fairly easy to re-input.
See above paragraph when more than one endpoint lies at the same location.

Press RETURN to execute action with current data.  If the action is not well-
defined, then nothing will happen, but a warning message appears.

Translation.  G,T or icon or menu option.  Requires one data entry.

There is a shortcut for executing translations.  Whenever a selected set
exists, individualmoving a point will cause the entire selected set to be
translated similarly.

Shear.  G,S or icon or menu option.  Requires two data entries.  First data
entry is arbitrary, but direction must be cardinal.
Second entry must be parallel, and it cannot be colinear with the first data
entry.  If the line connecting
the two sources is perpendicular to the direction of motion and the lengths of
the new motions is the same, then the data is accepted, but a warning message
appears that this is actually going to be a translation, not a shear.

If the selected set of men is colinear, then it is possible for one properly
chosen data entry to define the action uniquely.  The data entry must lie on
the same line as all of the men.  In this case, a message appears that the
be cardinal).  

Reflection.  G,X or icon or menu option.  Choose one of four directions for
the axis of reflection from a menu
(must be cardinal).  One data entry required.  Direction of motion must be
perpendicular to axis of reflection.

Dilation.  G,D or icon or menu option.  Two data entries required. 
Directions of 
motion must be parallel.  Entries can be colinear.  If the line between source
points is perpendicular to the direction of motion, then the motions must be
of the same length.  In this case, there is a warning that the action will
actually be a translation, not a dilation.

If the set of selected men is colinear, then it is possible to define some
dilations with only one entry.  The source point must be colinear with the
selected set, and the direction of motion must be perpendicular to the line of
men.  In this case, a message appears that the action is already defined, but 
another data entry will be accepted.

Geniusmove.  G,G or icon or menu option.  Three data entries are required.

If the selected set is colinear, then it is possible to define the geniusmove
with only two entries.  Source points must be colinear with the selected set.

If the selected set lies entirely at a point, then it is possible to define
the geniusmove with only one entry.  The source point must coincide with the
location of the selected set.

In both cases, a warning message informs that the action is already
well-defined.  However, more data entries are accepted (up to the usual
maximum of three).

Rotation.  G,R or icon or menu option.  Rotation does not follow the convention
of the rest of the geniusmove family for data entry.  Locate the cursor at the
desired center of rotation and click with the left button.  A dot appears.
Remove the dot with right click, and move it with left drag.  Press RETURN
to execute.

Smartmove

Icon or menu option.  Not repeatable.  If two men have not been
individualmoved since the
program started running, the action will abort with a warning message.
Otherwise, a target appears at the next destination.  Right click on a man to
make him move to the target location.  Simultaneously, the target moves to the
next destination.  This process continues until ESC is pressed.  No other
actions are allowable until smartmove is aborted.

Undo before aborting smartmove will just undo the most recent move and will
return the target to its previous position.  Undo after aborting will undo
all movements caused during the entire smartmove.

Clevermove

Icon or menu option.  Not repeatable. 
If three men have not been individualmoved since the
program started running, then the action will abort with a warning message.
A target appears.  Right click on any man to move it to the position of the
target.  This continues until ESC is pressed; no other actions are allowed
until clevermove is aborted.

Undo before aborting will just undo the most recent move and will return the
target to its previous position.  Undo after aborting will undo the entire
clevermove.

Suppose that p1, p2, and p3 are the destinations of the three most recent
individualmoves in that order.  The target initially appears at
p1 + 2 (p2 - p1).  Each time the right button is pressed, the target is
incremented by (p2 - p1) automatically.  Right arrow (respectively left arrow)
manually increments (respectively decrements) the location of the target by
p2 - p1.  Up arrow (down arrow) manually increments (decrements) the location
of the target by p3 - p1.  Press the left mouse button to move the target to
p1 + (n+1) (p3 - p1), when the target was at p1 + m (p2 - p1) + n (p3 - p1).

Note that the meaning of the arrows has nothing to do with the relative
position of p1, p2, and p3.  Therefore, it is most logical to start in the
lower left corner of a block.  If the user starts in the upper right corner,
then down arrow will move the target up and right arrow will move the target
left.

Stuntsheet Manipulation

Nextsheet. N or icon or stuntsheet submenu option.  Changes current stuntsheet.
If the current sheet is last, prompt to insert new sheet at the end.

Previoussheet. P or icon or stuntsheet submenu option.  Changes current
stuntsheet.  If the current sheet is first, prompt to insert new sheet at
the beginning.

Insertsheet.  I or icon or stuntsheet submenu option.
To choose sheet after which
insertion is to take place, submenu listing all stuntsheets.  Option to insert
before first stuntsheet.  Default is current stuntsheet.  Group names not
accepted.

To choose initial configuration, submenu listing all stuntsheets.  Option
to list all groups.  Default is current stuntsheet.  Group names accepted.

To choose name, type.  Default is the logical numerical choice, if one exists.
"Logical" numbers consist of
a number followed by a letter (e.g., 15, 35A, 16N).  If the nearby sheets
are not numbered logically, then there is no default.

If insert after last stuntsheet numbered 32 (or 32A), then default is 33.
If insert before first stuntsheet numbered 1 or 0 or 3A, then default is
0 or -1 or 3 respectively.  If insert between consecutive sheets 15 and
18, then default is 16.  If insert between consecutive sheets 15 and 16,
then default is 15A.  If insert between consecutive sheets 15A and 16, then
default is 15B.  If insert between consecutive sheets 16 and 15, then there
is no default.

Stuntsheet.  Icon or S or menu option.  A list of the stuntsheets in order
appears, and a submenu of options for manipulating stuntsheets (icons or
keys).

Choose sheets to be manipulated.  Option for listing all groups.

Press ESC
after selecting a suboption to cancel suboption.  Press ESC while no
particular suboption is selected to return to normal operation.

Below are listed submenu options for stuntsheet manipulation.

Nextsheet.  N or icon.  Changes current stuntsheet.  
If the current sheet is last, prompt to insert new sheet at the end.  Can also
be accessed directly without going through the stuntsheet submenu.  Selected
set of sheets is irrelevant.

Previoussheet.  Icon or P.  Changes current stuntsheet.
If the current sheet is first, prompt to insert new sheet at the beginning.
Can also be accessed directly without going through the stuntsheet submenu.
Selected set of sheets is irrelevant.

Goto.  Icon or G.  Changes current stuntsheet to the stuntsheet occurring
first in the selected set of sheets.

Removesheets.  Icon or R.  Erases all selected sheets.
Y/N prompt to REALLY remove sheets.  If not sheets are selected, prompt to
delete current sheet.

Insertsheet.  I or icon.  Inserts sheet immediately after earliest selected
sheet.
Option to insert before first stuntsheet.  If no sheets are selected, then
insert after current sheet.

See above on how to choose initial configuration and how to choose name.

Movesheets.  Icon or M.  All selected sheets are moved.  If no sheets are
selected, then current sheet is moved.
To choose
stuntsheet after which selected sheets will be moved, submenu listing all
stuntsheets (groups not accepted).  Option for moving to the very beginning.
Default is current stuntsheet.

Effect of execution is best described by example.  Suppose that sheets 2, 4,
and 5 have been selected, and the destination is after SS7.  Then the new
order will be 1, 3, 6, 7, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9.

Copysheet.  C or icon.  All selected sheets are changed.  If no sheets are
selected, then current sheet will be changed.
To choose sheet to be copied, submenu listing all stuntsheets.
Option to list all groups, and option to list groups from another show.
Default is current stuntsheet,

Name.  N or icon.  Earliest sheet among selected sheets is renamed.  If no
sheets are selected, then rename current sheet.  Type new name for stuntsheet.

Autoname.  Icon or A.  Rename all selected stuntsheets so that they are in
increasing numerical order.  All associated refptsheets, etc. are
simultaneously changed.

This may create conflicts with the uniqueness of stuntsheet names.  If
autoname would require two stuntsheets to have the same name, then A is
prefixed to the not-selected sheet.  For example, suppose that the show
consists of sheets named 1, 2, 3, and 4.  Suppose that 2 and 4 are selected
and autoname is executed.  The result will be sheets named A1, 1, 3, 2.
If the A prefix also causes conflict, then prefix B, or C, etc.

Undo.  U or icon.  Undo most recent stuntsheet manipulation.  Note that undoing
AFTER escaping from the stuntsheet manipulation submenu will also cancel
the most stuntsheet manipulation.

Reference Points

Each stuntsheet is associated to arbitrarily many refptsheets.  The names for
these refptsheets are sRn, where s is the name of the stuntsheet and n is the
number of the refptsheet.  For example, the third refptsheet of SS13 is 13R3.
By convention, 13 is synonymous with 13R0.
Of course, these names can be changed, and associations can be changed.
Associations are an artificial construction to ease usage and are not
essential from the perspective of groups.

Selectrefpt.  R,S or icon or menu option.  Submenu listing all refptsheets
associated to the current stuntsheet that are not identical to the current
stuntsheet, plus the associated refptsheet with the SMALLEST number that IS
identical to the current stuntsheet.  [** Latter is for making "new" 
refptsheets; perhaps some special annotation on the list.  Or maybe there
should be an Insertrefpt command.]
If stuntsheet s is onscreen, then default is sR1.  If sRn is
onscreen, then sR(n+1) is default.  
Option for listing all refptsheets of all stuntsheets, and
option for listing all groups.  Type name or select from menu (groups are
accepted).  Execution causes selected group to become current; all 
subsequent move commands are applied to the selected refptsheet.

Removerefpts.  R,R or menu option.  Submenu listing all refptsheets
associated to the current stuntsheet.  Option for listing all refptsheets
or for listing all groups.  Select as many refptsheets as desired (groups
accepted).  Y/N prompt to REALLY remove data.  **  This is the new version of
zap.

Copyrefpt.  R,C or menu option.  To choose destination, submenu listing
all refptsheets associated to the current stuntsheet.  Default is the current
refptsheet.  Option for listing all refptsheets or listing all groups.

To choose source, submenu listing all refptsheets associated to the current
stuntsheet.  Default is sR(n+1) when the current refptsheet is sRn.  Options
for listing all refptsheets or listing all groups.

Execution causes the destination sheet to become a copy of the source sheet.

Associate.  R,A or menu option.  Choose refptsheets for which associations
will be defined.  Submenu listing all refptsheets associated to the current
stuntsheet.  Default is the current refptsheet.  Option for displaying all
refptsheets or all groups.  Select as many refptsheets (or groups) as
desired.

Choose stuntsheet to which refptsheets will be associated.  Submenu listing
all stuntsheets.  Default is current stuntsheet.  Groups not accepted.  More
than one stuntsheet can be selected.
If only one stuntsheet is selected, then prompt if names should be changed
to match the sRn convention.  If yes, then
sheets are renamed with lowest available values of n.

Name.  R,N or menu option.  To choose refptsheet to be renamed, submenu
listing all refptsheets associated to the current stuntsheet.  Default is
the current refptsheet.  Option to list all refptsheets or all groups.
Type new name.

Autoname.  R,U or menu option.  Submenu listing all stuntsheets.  Default
is current stuntsheet.  Choose as many stuntsheets as desired.

Upon execution, associated refptsheets are renamed to match the sRn
convention with minimal values for n.  If a refptsheet is associated to
more than one stuntsheet, then prompt to change name to?

Labels

Labels abstractly are nothing more than Groups.  For each label, there is a
corresponding Group.  Usually, each section of a label Group is a singleton
subset of the associated group. [** Defn: The section of G associated to g
is the subset G(g) of g.]  The only way to change the singleton-ness of a
label Group is through Group actions.

Locations of labels are also Groups.  Upperleft is the Group containing all
points whose labels appear above and to the left,
and Upperright is the Group containing
all points whose labels appear above and to the right.  Lowerleft and
Lowerright are defined similarly.

Note that these four Groups are generally mutually
exclusive and cover Show, which is the Group all of whose sections are full.
[** Defn: A section G(g) is full if G(g) = g.  Defn: A set of Groups covers
another Group G if for each group, the section of G is contained in the
union of the sections of the other Groups.]  However, this does not have to
be the case.  If a point lies in none of these Groups, then its label is
simply not displayed on the particular group.  If a point lies in more than
one of these Groups, then its label is displayed more than once on the same
group.  The only way to make this actually happen is through the group menu.

Horizontalflip.  F,H or icon or menu option.  Action is applied only to
preselected set of points.  Points in Upperleft are removed from Upperleft
and put in Upperright (and conversely).  Points in Lowerleft are removed from
Lowerleft and put in Lowerright (and conversely).

Verticalflip.  F,V or menu option.  Action is applied only to
preselected set of points.  Points in Upperleft are removed from Upperleft
and put in Lowerleft (and conversely).  Points in Upperright are removed from
Upperright and put in Lowerright (and conversely).

Right.  F,R or icon or menu option.  Action is applied only to preselected
set of points.  Points in Upperleft are removed from Upperleft and put
in Upperright.  Lowerleft gets moved to Lowerright.  No effect on points
already in Lowerright or Upperright.

Left. Up. Down.  Completely analogous to right.  All are menu options.
Left is also an icon.  Keystrokes are L,L; L,U; and L;D.

Observe that no ambiguities in these actions are created by the existence
of points with more than one label or with no label.  None of these actions
will have any effect on points without labels.  Suppose that a point
has both an upperleft and an upperright label.  Then h-flip will not make
any difference, v-flip will cause the labels to move to lowerleft and
lowerright, right will make only a single label upperright, etc.

Name.  L,N or menu option.  
Action is applied to preselected set of points.  For each selected
point, a new label must be typed.  Alternately, one can specify a list of
labels (using the standard shorthand if desired), and the program will
assign them arbitrarily.  The names of the labels are changed on all groups
including stuntsheets and refptsheets, but there is an option to change the
names for the current group only.  

Relabel.  L,A or menu option.  Action is applied to selected set only.
Prompt to renumber last portion or first portion of show; default is last.
Submenu to choose latest (earliest) stuntsheet that will NOT be changed;
default is current stuntsheet, and group names NOT accepted.  To choose group
to "emulate," submenu listing all stuntsheets.  Option for listing all
groups.  Default is the stuntsheet directly following (preceding) the
stuntsheet chosen above.  The set of point on the last (first) unchanged
stuntsheet must precisely match the set of points on the "emulated" group.
In case of superimposition, the correspondence is assigned arbitrarily.

Files

Save.  F,S or icon or menu option.  Default is save
under current name, but there is an option to change the name by typing
it.  If the show does not yet have a name, then this option is invoked
automatically.  Not undoable, not repeatable.

Load.  F,L or menu option.  Asks to save the outgoing
show.  Asks for a name of new show, which can be typed or chosen from a
directory browser.  Loads new show.  If new show does not exist, enter
show creation routine.  Not undoable, not repeatable.

Quit.  F,Q or menu option.  Prompts Y/N to really quit.  Obviously
not undoable or repeatable.

Merge.  F,M or menu option.  Prompt to merge onto beginning or onto end of
current show; default is end.  Submenu listing current directory.  Type
name or choose from
menu.  If points on first and last stuntsheets exactly correspond, then
prompt to automatically relabel, and then prompt to relabel first part or
last part; defaults are yes and last part.

If last sheet of the show that
will become the first part is numerical, then prompt to renumber stuntsheets 
on latter part of merged show.  The names of the latter part will be changed
to be consecutive numbers, starting with the number of the last sheet on the
earlier part.  However, stuntsheets of the latter part that are not numerical
initially are left unchanged.  For example, suppose that "SONS" is being
merged onto the end of "BIGC."  BIGC has sheets named TUNNEL, 1, 5, GRRAH,
and 3.  SONS has sheets named 1, 2A, 2B, and SPELLOUT.  Automatic renumbering
will give sheets named TUNNEL, 1, 2, GRRAH, 3, 4, SONS5, 6, SPELLOUT (see
next paragraph for an explanation of "SONS5.")

In case of duplication of group names, the
name of the group of the non-current show is changed by adding the name of
the show onto the front of the name.  For example, suppose "SONS" is being
merged onto the end of "BIGC."  BIGC has four sheets named 1,2,3,4, and
SONS has three sheets named 1,2,3.  The user does NOT choose to automatically
renumber the sheets, so the resulting sheet names are 1, 2, 3, 4, SONS1,
SONS2, SONS3.

Print. F,P or icon or menu option.  Choose sheets to be printed.  Select as
many as desired.  Default is all sheets.  Option to change collection
(default is Show).  Option to list all groups.

Option to select printer.

Option for PRComm-style overview sheets.  **  Note that it is not necessary to
choose between football field and spring show since Background takes care of
that.

Groups

Associate.  G,A or menu option.  Choose refptsheets for which associations
will be defined.  Default is the current group.
Select as many groups as desired.

Choose stuntsheet to which groups will be associated.  Submenu listing
all stuntsheets.  Default is current stuntsheet.  Groups not accepted.  More
than one stuntsheet can be selected.
If only one stuntsheet is selected, then prompt if names should be changed
to match the sRn convention.  If yes, then
sheets are renamed with lowest available values of n.

Option for unassociating selected groups.

Selectgroup.  G,S or menu option.  Submenu listing all groups.  Default is
current group.  Type name or
choose from menu.  Selected group becomes current.  Generalizes Nextsheet,
Previoussheet, Goto, and Selectrefpt.

Removegroups. G,R or menu option.  Submenu listing all groups.  Default is
current group.
Choose as many groups as desired.  Prompt to REALLY delete data.

Creategroup.  G,C or menu option.
Enter name for new group.  Choose initial
configuration for group by selecting from submenu listing all groups; default
is current group.

Deletepoints.  G,D or menu option.  Selected set is removed from current
group; they actually disappear from the screen.

Editpoints. G,A or menu option.  Each click with left button causes a point
to appear onscreen.  Click with right on a point to delete a point.  In case
of superimposed points, submenu for choosing which point is to be deleted.
Note that added points will not have labels.  Press
ESC to return to normal operation.

Collections

** I know this is a clumsy way to manipulate collections, but who cares?  We're
only expecting pros to even think about using this feature, and even they will
hardly ever have to bother with it.  This method seems to minimize the
necessary additions to the user interface.

Createcollection.  C,C or menu option.  Prompt name for new collection.  
To choose initial configuration of collection, submenu listing all collections.
Default is Show.

Addsection.  C,A or menu option.  Submenu listing all collections.
Default is most recently accessed collection.  If no collection
has been accessed specifically, then default is Show.  Selected
set is added to the section of the chosen collection corresponding to the
current group.  If some points already lie in the section, then the action
has no effect on those points.

Deletesection.  C,D or menu option.  Same as Addsection except that selected
set is removed from section corresponding to current group.  If some selected
points already are not contained in section, then the action has no effect
on those points.

Editsection.  C,E or menu option.  Submenu listing all collections; default
as above.  Section becomes highlighted onscreen.  Leftclick to add a point
to the section.  Rightclick to delete a point from the section.  Press ESC
to return to normal operation.

Removecollection.  C,R or menu option.  Submenu listing all collections;
default as above.  Choose as many collections as desired.
Prompt to really erase data.  Collection is gone forever.

Label collections can be removed; the effect is to erase a particular label
from each and every group.  However, the associated point is still there.
Symbol collections can also be removed; the effect of removing Solid is to
make all solidmen into plainmen.  The Solid collection will automatically
be recreated when the user tries to change a symbol to solid (using the
symbol features).  

Removing Show is possible but is generally a very very bad idea.  Without Show,
just about nothing except for the group and collection menus will work.
Special prompt before the program actually erases Show.

Unioncollections.  C,U or menu option.  Choose collections to be changed from a
list of all collections (select as many as desired).  Choose collections to
be added (select as many as desired).  Execution causes each section of the
collections-to-be-changed to include the points in the corresponding sections
of the collections-to-be-added.  This is essentially a union operation on 
the level of collections.

Subtractcollections.  C,S or menu option.  Same as above, except points of
sections of collections-to-be-deleted are removed from the sections of
collections-to-be-changed.  This operation is A AND (NOT B), where A is
the collection-to-be-changed, and B is the collection-to-be-added.

(Section-wise) complementation of a collection A can be implemented by creating
a new collection as a copy of Show, then subtracting A from the new section.
** single command for complementation?

** Should we allow relations between collections to be defined?  "A is
contained (section-wise) in B."  "A and B are mutually exclusive (section-
wise)."  "A and B cover C (section-wise)."

Grid

The program always rounds off location to the nearest point on a lattice.
The lattice can be of varying size and is determined by the size of the grid.
There are four possible lattice sizes: 4step, 2step, 1step, .5step.

Gridsize.  Icon or E,G or menu.  Choose new gridsize from list of four
possible choices.  Default is current gridsize.

Symbol

Changesymbol.  Icon or Y,C or menu option.  Choose from list of eight possible
symbols.  Default is symbol that was chosen in most recent changesymbol
action.  Upon execution, selected men are changed to the selected symbol.

Solid.  Y,O or menu option.  Symbols of men in selected set are inverted
with respect to solidness.  Plainmen become solidmen; solidmen become
plainmen; slashmen become solidslashmen; solidslashmen become slashmen;
etc.

Slash.  Y,S or menu option.  Symbols of men in selected set are inverted
with respect to possession of slash.  Plain becomes slash; X becomes
backslash; solidslash becomes solid; etc.

Backslash.  Y,B or menu option.  Symbols of men in selected set are inverted
with respect to possession of backslash.

Continuity

Editcontinuity.  Icon or E,E or menu option.  Choose from list of all symbol
collections (default is symbol most recently used by any command), or request
list of all collections.  Type away.  ESC to leave.

Option to split window so that more than one set of instructions can be
viewed and edited simultaneously.  Choose from list as above.

Option to switch between windows within continuity editor.  Option to
unsplit window.

Standard cut and paste utilities for deleting, copying, and moving text
within a window or between windows.

Option to edit continuity for a stuntsheet other than the current
one.  This option operates at the level of each window, so that continuities
from different stuntsheets can be viewed simultaneously.

Option to call Createcollection directly without having to press ESC, so that
continuity instructions can be created that do not correspond to an already
existing collection.

Option to verify accuracy of continuity.  Checks for typographical errors,
and checks to make sure that the animation makes sense.  Do all men reach
NP in time?  Does some man have too much continuity for the time allotted?
Operates individually on each individual continuity assignment, or you can
call the Verifycontinuity command (see below).


** This one command is pretty complicated, but it combines a lot of features
from the old version in a more logical and easy-to-use fashion.

Animation

Animate.  Icon or A or menu option.  Animation starts at beat 1 of the current
sheet.  However, if the last animation was aborted while depicting
this same stuntsheet, then the animation starts at the beat where it was
aborted.

Click right or right arrow to advance one beat.  Click left or left arrow
to back up one beat.  Options are activated by typing key (shown in
parentheses) or clicking on icon.  Note that to advance a beat, the cursor
must NOT be located on an icon.

Option to check for collisions (C).  Collisions appear in some special color,
and
labels of colliding men are displayed.  Option to turn warning bell on or
off (default is on) (B).  Option to set collision tolerance (T) (choices are
0; 1/2; sqrt(2)/2; 1; sqrt(2); 1.5; 2; or type any real number).

Option for automatic animation (A).  Option to set speed (default is speed used
most recently on this show (recalled from previous time this show was
edited if necessary)).  Number keys 1-9 correspond to specific beats per
minute (bpm).  +/- increments/decrements bpm in jumps corresponding to the
standard metronome markings.  ** Not all numbers are used for metronome
markings; I'll send you a list, or you can copy them off of a metronome.
Option to type bpm (S)(any positive integer).  Option to adjust bpm graphically
(VCR-style).  Left click or left arrow to animate backwards.  Right click
or right arrow to animate forwards.

Option to highlight particular collections (H).  Choose from list displaying
all
collections.  Select as many as desired.  Selected collections appear in a
special color.

Animatepoints.  A,P or menu option.  Selected men are added to the section
of the Animation collection associated to the current group.
Option to add all men (without having to first select all men).

Deanimatepoints. A,D or menu option.  Selected men are subtracted from the
section of the Animation collection associated to the current group.  Option
to subtract all men (without having to first select all men).

Sections of Animation associated to groups that are not stuntsheets are
completely irrelevant.

Fancier collection operations are accessible through the general collection
command.

Beats.  Icon or A,B or menu.  Choose sheets for which beats will be
assigned.  Select as many as desired.  Default is current stuntsheet.
Type absolute number of beats, or option for typing relative change (positive
or negative).

Verifycontinuity.  Icon or A,V or menu.  Choose sheets for which continuity
will be checked.  Select as many as desired.  Default is all sheets.
Checks for typographical accuracy as well as verifying that the animation
makes sense.  Do all men reach NP in time?  Does any man have too much 
continuity for the time allotted?